CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Perspective!

Perspective is built on open source and hosted by the Fintech Open Source
Foundation (FINOS). We invite you to participate in our community by adding and
commenting on [issues](https://github.com/finos/perspective/issues) (e.g., bug
reports; new feature suggestions) or contributing code enhancements through a
pull request.

## Guidelines

When submitting or commenting on an Issue, please respect the following
guidelines. Github Issues are Perspective's project record of bugs and feature
development, e.g. for publishing a release's Changelog, and as such it is
important to keep them informative and on-topic. As such, please understand that
we may remove or reclassify comments or Issues which violate the guidelines.

-   Be respectful and civil!
-   Use the provided Issue templates. If the templates don't fit your need,
    please open a [discussion](https://github.com/finos/perspective/discussions)
    instead.
-   Don't ask for issues to be assigned to you if you're a first-time
    contributor. If you need help picking an issue to work on, please open a
    [discussion](https://github.com/finos/perspective/discussions).
-   Don't add comments asking when a feature will be delivered or a reported
    issue fixed. The Issue will link any in-progress draft PRs or Milestones (if
    known).

When submitting Pull Request (PR), please respect the following coding
guidelines:

-   Sign commits (e.g. with `-s`) in accordance with the DCO policy detailed
    below, _before_ opening a PR.
-   Please make sure PRs include:

    -   Tests asserting behavior of any new or modified features.
    -   Docs for any new or modified public APIs.
    -   [Benchmarks](https://perspective.finos.org/docs/development/#benchmark)
        for any C++ changes.

-   Keep PRs clean, simple and to-the-point:
    -   Squash "WIP", "Reverting ..", etc., commits.
    -   No merge commits (`git merge master`), prefer `rebase` to resolve
        conflicts with the `master` branch.
    -   Try to organize commits as functional components (as opposed to
        timeline-of-development).

Please note that non substantive changes, large changes without prior
discussion, etc, are not accepted and pull requests may be closed.

## DCO

The Perspective project requires contributors to affirm their contributions via
a [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org), which
certifies that developers are authorized to make their contribution, either on
their own behalf or on behalf of their employer.

In practice, this means that all commits to Perspective must be signed (e.g.
with `-s`/`-S`). Pull requests with any unsigned commits, or where the signer
does not match the commit author, can not be merged by Perspective's committers.
We ask that you check that you have a signed all your commits before making a
pull request. A [DCO enforcement bot](https://github.com/apps/dco) will
automatically scan and flag any pull requests that lack a valid sign-off.

If you have any general questions about contributing to Perspective, please feel
free to open a discussion on
[github](https://github.com/finos/perspective/discussions)

Commit message:

Updated issue and PR templates
Signed-off-by: Andrew Stein <steinlink@gmail.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Perspective!

Perspective is built on open source and hosted by the Fintech Open Source
Foundation (FINOS). We invite you to participate in our community by adding and
commenting on [issues](https://github.com/finos/perspective/issues) (e.g., bug
reports; new feature suggestions) or contributing code enhancements through a
pull request.

## Guidelines

Please note that due to the we may close your Issue or Pull Request for any
reason listed here or in the associated contribution template. If you find your
contribution closed with a link to this document or a contribution template,
please make sure you've followed the instructions closely before re-submitting.

When submitting or commenting on an Issue, please respect the following
guidelines. Github Issues are Perspective's project record of bugs and feature
development, e.g. for publishing a release's Changelog, and as such it is
important to keep them informative and on-topic. As such, please understand that
we may remove or reclassify comments or Issues which violate the guidelines.

-   Be respectful and civil!
-   Use the provided Issue templates. If the templates don't fit your need,
    please open a [discussion](https://github.com/finos/perspective/discussions)
    instead.
-   Don't ask for issues to be assigned to you if you're a first-time
    contributor. If you need help picking an issue to work on, please open a
    [discussion](https://github.com/finos/perspective/discussions).
-   Don't add comments asking when a feature will be delivered or a reported
    issue fixed. The Issue will link any in-progress draft PRs or Milestones (if
    known).

When submitting a Pull Request (PR), please respect the following coding
guidelines:

-   Don't open a PR without an associated
    [Open Issue](https://github.com/finos/perspective/issues) which has been
    tagged by a project maintainer.
-   Make sure your PR passes _build_, _test_ and _lint_ steps _completely_
    before opening a PR. Make _sure_ you've run these locally, even if you think
    your change will not impact this step!
-   Don't open a PR for auto-generated, AI-assisted or otherwise inauthentic
    contributions.
-   Sign commits (e.g. with `-s`) in accordance with the DCO policy detailed
    below, _before_ opening a PR.
-   Please make sure PRs include the following _not optional_ components:

    -   Tests asserting behavior of any new or modified features.
    -   Docs for any new or modified public APIs.
    -   [Benchmarks](https://perspective.finos.org/docs/development/#benchmark)
        for any performance-critical changes.

-   Keep PRs clean, simple and to-the-point:
    -   Squash "WIP", "Reverting ..", etc., commits.
    -   No merge commits (`git merge master`), prefer `rebase` to resolve
        conflicts with the `master` branch.
    -   Try to organize commits as functional components (as opposed to
        timeline-of-development).

## DCO

The Perspective project requires contributors to affirm their contributions via
a [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://developercertificate.org), which
certifies that developers are authorized to make their contribution, either on
their own behalf or on behalf of their employer.

In practice, this means that all commits to Perspective must be signed (e.g.
with `-s`/`-S`). Pull requests with any unsigned commits, or where the signer
does not match the commit author, can not be merged by Perspective's committers.
We ask that you check that you have a signed all your commits before making a
pull request. A [DCO enforcement bot](https://github.com/apps/dco) will
automatically scan and flag any pull requests that lack a valid sign-off.

If you have any general questions about contributing to Perspective, please feel
free to open a discussion on
[github](https://github.com/finos/perspective/discussions)
